# Portfolio
Collection of assignments I have done in my studies and will soon have some other things that I have played with.

At the time I make this I am a second year college student, studying computer science at Reykjavík University and scheduled to graduate spring 2023.
I decided to make this portfolio because I know it can help me show what I have done and how I have grown in a short time when it comes to these studies.
Right now I don't have a lot, I am still working on few things and adding on to my schedule some assignments that are not for school but more for my own interest. I am very proud of how far I have come, after the first year i was convinced I would not be able to program. All of the assignments I will put in here is something I did completely myself and will mention if I worked the assignment in a group.

## About the assignments
Hangman - This assignment was the last assignment we got in a course named Gagnaskipan or Data structures. I was able to make the most basic one, and was going to try with the more complex one later on. My version of this game was that I ask the users for some words and how many guesses they want, they can add as many words as they want. When they feel like there are enough words in the wordbank the game begins. It works just like a hangman from there, a random word is choosen from the wordbank and I tell the users how many guesses they have left, show them the word as dashed lines where each dash is a letter and ask what letter they choose. The users guess by pressing one letter at a time and the system will tell them if it is in the word or not until they have run out of guesses or the users have won the game.
I did have in mind to make it more complex later as I did not have enough time for it in the assignment. What I had had in mind was for example, in stead of asking the users for words, I would collect words from a external file and put into the wordbank. I wanted to make the guesses so that for each random word that got choosen, the guesses would calculate how long the word is and add maybe 2 or 3 extra guesses so for example if the word had 6 letters the users would have 8-9 guesses. Then it would have been possible to have some kind of login or at least ask for a name and save into a competitors dictionary and from there we could keep track of how many wins and looses each competitor have and maybe make a leader board and make a competition out of this.

Piano_Only_HTML_CSS + Gulla - This assignment was pretty simple HTML and CSS assignment from a Web Programming course which i did with a colleague. CSS had not been my best friend when I tried it out the first time so I was very proud that I had been able to make the piano allign correctly. So the main thing about this assignment was to make the "website" look closely enough to a piano, make the keys look like they are being pressed both by using the mouse and by pressing a corresponding key on the computer keyboard. The dropdown menu needed to have 3 songs already in the queue, then in later assingments we would make the play, record and stop buttons do their thing.

Piano_JavaScript - In this assignment I worked alone. Instead of using the piano I made in the earlier assignment, the teacher gave us his solution to it. To be able to see all functionality you might need to do "npm install" and "npm start" to activate the backend. So the only thing we did in this assignment was to add JavaScript functionality. Firstly I needed to make the correct note play when the piano keys were pressed both with the mouse and with the corresponding keys on the keyboard. I needed to make sure that the already existing tunes would go into the dropdown menu and then the selected tune would play if the play button was pressed. By pressing the record button the start of a recording should be available and all notes played will be recorded and then when stop is pressed (and a name has been put into the name field) the song will save and should be albe to play from the drop down menu. My recording was not perfectly working, I thought I had been able to fix it but in the end there was something thad did not work properly.
